=pod

=head1 NAME

B<fn2yara> - Function based Yara signature generation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fn2yara [--output-filename=YARA_FILE] [--min-instructions=NUMBER] 
  [--max-string-bytes=NUMBER] [--basic-blocks] [--comparison]
  [--threshold=NUMBER] [--prefix=STRING] [--address-only]
  [--include-thunks] [--oldway] [...Pharos options...] EXECUTABLE_FILE

fn2yara --help

fn2yara --rose-version

@PHAROS_OPTS_POD@

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<fn2yara> does stuff...

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 B<fn2yara> OPTIONS

The following options are specific to the B<fn2yara> program.

=over 4

=item B<--output-filename>=I<YARA_FILE>, B<-o>=I<YARA_FILE>

output filename (defaults to the filename suffixed by .yara)

=item B<--min-instructions>=I<NUMBER>, B<-m>=I<NUMBER>

Minimum number of instructions needed for an instruction block to be
output for a function. default = 5.

=item B<--max-string-bytes>=I<NUMBER>, B<-M>=I<NUMBER>

Maximum size allowed for a yara string (in bytes) to be output for a
function (no rule generated if any string exceeds this).  Default =
10000.

=item B<--basic-blocks>, B<-B>

Split rules strictly by basic blocks

=item B<--comparison>, B<-c>

Output a yara single rule that matches all instruction blocks found in
the program.

=item B<--threshold>=I<NUMBER>, B<-T>=I<NUMBER>

A percentage threshold for the number of strings that need to match in
any given rule.  Default = 100.

=item B<--prefix>=I<STRING>, B<-p>=I<STRING>

Prefix for rule names

=item B<--address-only>, B<-a>

Only output addresses of candidate functions, rather than rules.  Not
in YARA format.

=item B<--include-thunks>

include thunks in output

=item B<--oldway>, B<-o>

use old hacky way to PIC.  (probably should be removed)

=back

@PHAROS_OPTIONS_POD@

=head1 EXAMPLES

Put examples here.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

@PHAROS_ENV_POD@

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4 

@PHAROS_FILES_POD@

=back

=for compiled
head1 NOTES

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by the Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon
University.  The primary author was Michael Duggan.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2018 Carnegie Mellon University.  All rights reserved.  This
software is licensed under a "BSD" license.  Please see I<LICENSE.txt>
for details.

=for comment
head1 SEE ALSO

=cut

Local Variables:
mode:text
indent-tabs-mode:nil
End:
